Welcome to Vectors,
Classes, and Objects! In this lecture we are going to be learning how we can
represent the vectors, that we learned about in the last lecture, in
variables, so that we can do cool things like calculate our path to home
in two dimension, and then calculate the distance to home,
as well. So all of that coming right up! Let's dive in!
So now we're back at the code, and we have our
location stored as a float. Now what we'd want to do is, I've introduced you to vectors
as a notion of location. Well we want to change our location
to be a vector. Now, how are we going to do this? How do you
store a complex thing like a vector in a variable. Well for
that, we're going to need something called classes and objects, but first, let's do a little quick
revision of our glossary. So this is the glossary we've seen
so far. We've got Values, Types, and Variables, which hopefully we should be very familiar with
by now. The Value being things like strings, the Types being those little
markers that we add the shapes on the Variables, and
the Variables, of course, themselves. Then, we have statements, which we have
mastered with the semicolon at the end, and the Expressions which
are the things that return as values. So we even cover things like booleans
in Expressions, at this point now. Now our Glossary 2,
as we go on from here! Well we have our methods, we've talked
about those a little bit, those are the things like GetKeyDown and print
over here. Let me just get my little pointer here. We've got print and GetKey
Down. So these are the factories, which with input
can do some mechanizing, some processing, some doing,
and then, produce some output, and the things, these inputs that go into
methods, we call them arguments for some reason, I don't know. I don't want to pick an
argument. And the outputs of these methods we call
return values. So those are some of these things
we've seen before! We've also seen an operation! Now how are an operation and a method
different, because they seem like they kind of both do operations, in a sense,
and you'd be right. An operation is indeed basically just a method
but instead of having a big English name like Get
KeyDown, they have a symbol, and that symbol is called
an operator, such as addition, you use the + operator.
And they're often, instead of putting like + and then open
brackets, we just give it the arguments on either side, this is called
infix, in quotes. You can't see my air quotes, but you can see them here on the
page, 'infix'. So that is our quick summary of a
glossary! Now, what is an object? So an object
is something a bit more complicated than just a float, it's
something that really encapsulates some more that's
something more than that. So let's have a look at what an object is! An object
is a collection of different methods, I've denoted them here again with a factory
symbol, and a bunch of variables,
variables with values in it, in this case. So
in a object they have these values, and
we can create multiple copies of these objects but they could have
different values in it. They'll have the same factories but they would have
different values, and, in order to do this, we make
these copies from a blueprint. Now that blueprint, obviously, has no values of its own,
it gets the values only when they have been made into
actual things. So you can think of this as the difference between the blueprint of a
house and the actual house itself. The actual house itself has wood and bricks,
but the blueprint just tells you where to put those wood and bricks.
Now, the way we create this is using a new keyword called new,
and you can obviously use it to create as many things from
these class blueprints as we like. So the type of class that we aren't
going to use for location is called Vector2,
because it's a two dimensional vector. So we do something like Vector2,
and then, we need to give it the
values that make up its, well these values here,
that go inside of its variables. And, in this case,
because it's a two dimensional vector we give it two values,
the X and the Y. So we can do something like this,
which gives us the coordinates of that vector.
Now, you'll notice it's complaining. Now the reason for that is, it says you
can't invoke Vector2 like a method, and that's because we need to use the
special keyword to create a new object of that
Vector2 type. So this is the way that we
initialize. We create,
basically, a Vector2. Now you'll notice it's still giving us an error and
that is because it is trying to be stored in the
wrong shape variable. We need this variable to be of type Vector2,
and now you can see that, indeed,
we are getting the thing we would expect, on this line anyway. There's errors
further down but we won't worry too much about that!
So it's challenge time! I'd like you to replace the floats
with Vector2's, throughout your program.
Now, to do this, you're going to have to turn homeLocation into a Vector2,
you're going to have to update distance to be pathToHome, because distance doesn't make
sense anymore if it's going to be a vector, and remove any code
that doesn't make sense. Well, basically, use your brain,
think about why this wouldn't make sense if it's a vector.
And just remember things like saying one vector is greater
than another doesn't really make sense, unless you're talking about in a direction because, you know,
what's it mean if this vector is bigger than another? Is this location
over here bigger than that location over there? It's hard to say, unless we give it some sense
of direction, so maybe you need to remove a few things and we'll need to reconsider.
Then, print out the path home and see, what does it look like. Does it
look right? Are your calculations correct? And remember that we can
still use the operations, subtraction and addition, on
these Vector2's, so you know, they're now operating on a more complex
object but those operations will still work. So pause the video and have a go at
updating your code! OK welcome back!
I hope you've all had a go, and if you got stuck, no worries, it's
a bit of a tricky challenge. But if you managed, go ahead and share what you managed to do
in the discussions, before even having a look at my solution, and then, you can pick up
notes and share those in the discussions as well. So let's
have a look! First off homeLocation, that needs to be a Vector2, as well!
And as we said, we need to do a new Vector2,
and then, we put in brackets here the
things, the location that home is.
So I'm just picking a random location, you can do whatever you
like. Probably random 2 is a good place to start.
Now, If I have a look at this, I Cannot impliciltly convert type 'UnityEngine.Vector2' to
'float' ". Yep, that makes sense, because we want this to now be a Vector2,
and we want this to be called pathToHome,
fair enough. And we want to print
out ("Path to home: " + path
ToHome). Let's save that!
Now what's not going to make sense? Well equality, that might
make sense, you can say that I'm home, so we'll leave that in, but inequality,
so less than and greater than, they aren't going to make sense. I'm going to remove those,
so this all makes sense. We've got
our pathToHome being calculated as a vector. Let's go ahead and
hit play and see whether this makes sense now. So
it's saying that, in the X direction, we need to go forward 3
to get home. Yep, that looks correct!
It's saying that we need to go -2 in the Y direction. Yep, so everything
looks as it should. And if we look at this, this
calculation, that we haven't actually had to change at all, is exactly what we
worked out previously, in the last lecture, when it came to
finding the distance from home. You see that? We just did Home - Player,
which is the same as saying homeLocation - Location here. So
that calculation with the vectors stands up, it's basically the
same and that's fantastic! Now, what we've done in terms of objects?
So here we have given our Vector, we've created a new
object from the blueprint of the Vector2, we've given it some
values to put in its different variable boxes,
and then, we have performed some operations on it. Now it's not easy to see the operations, because
they don't look like GetKeyDown, but, as I said before,
operators and operations that we have are things like
- and + and this is just as much an operation on the Vector
and a factory on the Vector as, you know, doing something
else would be. Now, a quick bonus to find that actual
distance of pathToHome. We can actually use
a method on that vector. Now, let's have a look! So
print("Distance to home: "
+. Now the pathToHome),
if you use this dot operator, it gives you all the methods
that exist on this particular object,
so these methods automatically can
operate on all these values that we've passed in and are attached, essentially,
to the value in that location variable or in the path
ToHome variable. And we can get something such as,
for example, magnitude.
Now magnitude here isn't actually a method, it's
something like a pretend variable, it's a variable that's been
calculated from these. So we
can put the semicolon on the end and go on
it like that. So basically, you can think of
magnitude as being like a method, except we don't need to
use the method syntax of having the brackets after it.
So now you can see the "Distance to home" has been calculated for us.
That's automatically been calculated by a Pythagorus Theorem, so that's
very easily the square root of the two numbers squared,
but you don't have to worry about that, because that's all been calculated for you.
And the magnitude just tells us the size, without the direction of the
vector, so it's telling us exactly how far away from home we are.
So that's all been done, because of the handiness of objects!
So you can see that because we've been able to box
up all these variables and attach operations and methods to
them, you're able to do these very easy operations
on them at a very high level of abstraction, so that is the cool thing
about classes and objects! In the next lecture we're going to see how, actually, the whole
Console printer itself is a class and
it becomes an object in Unity. So we're going to find out how we can
use that to share variables between these two different methods.
So I will see you there!